Here is my working manifest of pieces and work that need to be donto do. I'm sorry it is not a concise, pithy description of the few things that need to be done, but I've put an asterisk beside things that are less farther along if you want to call them out specificially.  Everything here has had progress -- (I really tried to find early failures in every sub-system in order to see where the problems will be).

Estimating the time required for individual tasks is always difficult. Sometimes things fall into place and more often things take twice as long.  We've both had enough experience that we can probably take a stab at an appropriately padded schedule.
--------------------
Potential time-saving changes:

Use a machine shop service for specialized metal parts, sparger, heat exchanger, etc.

If the 3D printed parts that I've made work well, we can start ordering them from a service (ShapeWays), so I don't spend any more nights (like last night) cleaning the clogged nozzel on the 3D printer.  Otherwise the schedule would need time allocated to things which would appear to have nothing to do with the EvoStat.
--------------------------

The following will be required for each EvoStat, but at least one prototype for each sub-system has been built and most have two instances but no completely connected system exists yet.

Full integration of the system remains to be done and this will likely require some changes to both hardware and software.  Emphasis has been on keeping the cost low and making the system easy to replicate.  The next phase is to assemble enough of a complete system to start long test runs -- one expected result of these runs may require upgrades to certain components.

For example, even with low-duty-cycle operation, the four $25.00 peristaltic priming pumps may be an early failure point.  These four pumps are required for the three inputs: Host cells, Mutagenisis Inducer (Arabinose), and Selection Inducer (cAMP) -- and one waste/sample output.
(Note: Nutrient pump/valve are not included in the critical flow-rate subsystem because it is independently controlled by the Turbidostat).  Systems with more than three inputs will require a major change, but only if the additional inputs have substantial volumes and thereby need to be part of the flow-rate management.  Small volumes of indicators or innoculant which do not significantly affect the working volume can be handled without additional instrumentation.


Definitions:
   Lagoon - small container for independent evolving viral populations 
   Driver - switched current source to activate a relay or motor


Containers/Septa:
   1 3D printed cap with septa for host cell container
   * 4 3D printed caps for 250mL lagoons
   * 4 3D printed caps for 100mL lagoons

Heating:  
    Heater for host cell container
    Melexis (PIR) temperature detector
    1 high-voltage solid state relay
    * 4 (low-voltage) heaters for lagoons
    * 1 in-line heater for nutrient
    1 in-line heater for inducer
    * Still possible we will want a chamber heater. E.g. Heat Gun w/ relay
    Drivers for Arduino control of all heating elements
    Software


Mixing:
    Magnetic mixer for Host cell container
    4 magnetic mixers for lagoons
    Drivers for five mixing motors
    Software

Aeration:
    2 stainless steel sparger arcs for host cell container
    1 Aquarium air-pump
    1 High-voltage solid-state relay for air-pump

Flow
    12 3D printed compression valves
    1  3D-printed pointer
    1  3D-printed motor bracket
    Drivers for:
    	    Nutrient valve and pump
	    Inducer valve and pump
	    Host cell valve and pump
	    Outflow valve and pump
    Driver for Rotary valve unit (torque control)
    Step-encoder resistor network
    Software for position sensing and torque control


Optics:
    Drivers for red, yellow, green, blue, and red laser LEDs
   * Arduino Software for light control
   * Light-tight insulation for thermal enclosure
    System Software (OpenCV) for:
        Level detection
       * Turbidity Measurement
       * Fluorescence

Software:
    * Distributed Temperature control
    Turbidity/Nutrient supply control
    * Level/Flow maintenance (3 inputs)
    *  Leak detection  (sensors below apparatus)
    *  Data logging 
    Text messaging
   

There can be a structural stainless-steel version, currently all structure is PVC.

I have initial versions of software for the pump control software on micro-controllers and level detection on system computer, but integration of optical sensing and flow control is still to be done.

 
