Proposal Requirements

include the sections listed below
Use headings provided.

Table of Contents:
An inexpensive Phagestat for Continuous Evolution Research
Peter B. Reintjes
North Carolina Museum of Life and Science

Abstract
Technical Proposal Narrative:
  Problem
  Current Status of Research
  Technical Goals
  Project Plan
  Evaluation
    1) Criteria for a go/no-go decision, include metrics
    2) Discuss challenges

  Commercial Proposal Narrative
    Problem
    Commercial Goals
    Market
    Intellectual Property
    Project Plan



Abstract:
Continuous Evolution systems (PACE, PATHE) provide a powerful approach to protein engineering to increase Protein-DNA and Protein-Protein binding affinities and selectivity through directed evolution.  Ad-hoc systems built from commercially available equipment have material costs on the order of ~$30,000.00 as well as high labor costs because of the requirement of continuous monitoring.  Alternatively, by using inexpensive computational systems, commodity electronic and plumbing parts and a few custom 3D-printed components, a bio-reactor can be built for approximatel $1000 which eliminates much of the oversight requirements through non-contact sensing, image processing, and computer controlled feedback.  This inexpensive, easy-to-use apparatus will be provide a scalable platform for directed evolution protein engineering.

 (no more than one page): Provide an overview of the project, including a brief description of the technology, the name of the Commercialization Advisor, and a summary of the technical and commercialization goals.
Technical Proposal Narrative: The technical narrative should be no more than 4 pages long and include all sections below. Use the headings provided.

-Problem

Protein Engineering confronts the problem of making DNA sequence changes that result in a desired protein structure.  The difficulty of predicting precise three-dimensional shape and charge distribution from a sequence change means that traditional engineering approaches are often impractical.  As the goal of protein engineering is often to find a structure with stronger and more selective binding with a particular target, even if a precise correspondence between sequence changes and conformational changes were possible, it would still require precise knowledge of the target's shape and charge distribution in-vivo, which could be significantly different from information currently available through crystallography or NMR.

Directed evolution is a method whereby actual in-vivo interaction between a target protein and mutable protein can be used as a selection mechanism to discover novel sequences with the desired property.  Given a target and a provisonal protein which have some binding affinity, directed evolution provides an alternative approach to find those sequence changes which increase binding and selectivity (Cf. Esvelt et al.).

We give the name 'Phagestat' to an apparatus which maintains a population of bacterial virus (phage) which is undergoing directed evolution through interaction with a bacterial host that has been programmed to mutate, select, and propagate that virus.

An inexpensive, highly automated, and reliable phagestat will allow more directed evolution experiments to be performed.  Although the task of designing plasmids for the host cell generally is more difficult and may take longer than running an evolution experiment, inexpensive apparatii will open the possibility of performing many parallel experiments with different starting sequences and streamline the process of of feeding evolved sequences from strong-binding experiments into selectivity processes.
 

-Current Status of Research

Individual components, including the turbidostat, host cell incubator (CellStat), computer vision level monitoring, leakage alarm, and automatic sampling system have been built and tested. Reliability testing over several weeks have been performed on various subsystems including the heating/mixing/aeration cell culture system, phage lagoon mixing, heating, and lighting systems as well as the Bluetooth communications between these subsystems (CellStat and Lagoons) and the main computer. The operating-system independent control software, written in Python, Prolog, and using OpenCV for image processing, for the main computer has been tested on Debian, Ubuntu, Raspian versions of Linux on several desktop, laptop, and Raspberry Pi computers as well as on Microsoft Operating environments (Windows XP and Windows 7).

We know of no similar work to reduce the cost of constructing and operating phage-based continuous evolution experiments.  We acknowledge that the capital and labor costs of running such experiments may be of minor importance to practitioners of academic biological research.

Researchers currently involved in active research in this area probably do not regard a $30,000 capital cost and oversight requiring a few lab technicians as a primary concern.

This work requires expertise in areas outside of Molecular Biology, and its goal is to lower the cost of entry into this area of research as rather than to achieve any particular protein engineering task.  That said, the design and testing of the device is driven almost entirely by the requirements of ongoing work by Drs. Edgell, Charles, and Collier.

Describe the work that has been done to date, both in the lab of the scientist and in the field.

-Technical Goals

Explain the goals for the development of the technology to be achieved in this project.

-Project Plan

Three complete EvoStat systems will be built: One, almost complete as of this writing, to support the work of Edgell et alia at the Genome Sciences building on the campus of UNC-Chapel Hill.  A second will be constructed at the local makerspace in Durham, NC (Splatspace) where we have access to 3D printers, electronic workbench, and machine shop resources, and a third at the Museum of Life and Science, where principal construction of components for all three systems will be occur.

Patent application(s) will be completed covering various aspects of the project including the design of three custom components to perform turbidometer and auto-sampling, and software components for process control, communication, and image processing.

Improve the design to exploit low-cost alternatives to specialized equipment, and allow for the construction and substantial modification of the device to be performed by the laboratory personnel who will be using it.

Describe the studies that will be performed to meet the stated technological goals, including key technical milestones and a timeline narrative.

We intend to use the devices to recapitulate the experiments done by Esvelt, Lui, Dickson, and others at Harvard and support the novel work being done by Dr. Edgell et alia.

-Evaluation

The design should have a parts cost on the order of $1000.00 and could be constructed in a few weeks by an electronic technician with access to a 3D printer and machine tools.


1) Define the criteria for a go/no-go decision within the technical phase. Include defined metrics that will indicate or demonstrate a successful outcome.

Achieving sufficient image sensitivity for bio-luminescence through the active cooling of commodity USB cameras (Logi-Tech, Dino-Lite USB microscope)

Discuss the anticipated challenges within the technical aspects of the project.

Commercial Proposal Narrative: The commercial narrative should be no more than 2 pages long and include all sections below. Use the headings provided.
The Commercialization Advisor should participate in the preparation of this section of the proposal.

-Problem


-Commercial Goals

We want to encourage researchers with limited budgets to use these design ideas to perform research, possibly by requiring no licensing fee.  This approach could result in the sharing of improvements to the design from an open community.  We would then require licensing only for commercial exploitation of sequences resulting from the use of this device.

As evolution-based protein modification matures into an industrial process, we expect to license this design to one or more manufacturers of laboratory equipment.  Because the device itself does not produce theraputic proteins or chemicals, but is a tool for sequence discovery, it will not be subject to any particular medical equipment or FDA requirements.

One company (Innatrix) is already considering a business model to employ a number of these machines and a staff with expertise in selection-plasmid design to provide contract protein optimization.  Such a service would allow a drug development company with a protein theraputic to contract out the task of affinity or selectivity optimization without the need to build and maintain phagestats or develop in-house expertise directed evolution.  This business model is of particular interest as it benefits so directly from both the low build cost and the low operating cost of the device.

Patent protection

Ultimately, many practitioners will be wanting to perform continuous evolution experiments which does not require the flexibility of a user-configurable or even user maintainable machine. In this event, a manufacturer could be found to create a commercial version of the EvoStat.


Licensing

See the FAQs online for examples of commercialization goals.

-Market

Phage-based directed evolution is a fairly recent development, but given the advantages of protein-based theraputics, it seems very likely that tools for this kind of protein modification may come into widespread use in pharmaceutical development.

Manufacturers of liquid handling laboratory equipment such as Tecan, Aventics, Humphrey, Nordson EFD are all potential manufacturers of the EvoStat. Other companies include Becton Dickinson, Topac, Intellitech, and Pope Scientific.


-Intellectual Property

The PACE (Phage Assisted Continuous Evolution) technique is the subject of patents filed by Harvard University (ca. 2011).  Modifications to this process, such as PATHE (Edgell et al. unpublished correspondence) represent improvements to this technique which themselves may or may not be constrained by the PACE patents.  These patents relate exclusively to the molecular biology, phage selection, evolving protein as a proxy for phage fusion protein, and other matters relating to the molecular biology of mutation and selection processes.  This IP does not appear to impact phagestat design and our improvements are based upon well-known and largly open technologies.  A description of the prior art can be found in Husimi 1989.  The improvements represented in our IP are based upon this non-patent prior art.

As far as we know, none of the details of operation of this design are subject to any IP constraints.

-Project Plan

Support will provide funding for two days per week for six months.  One day per week at the Museum of Life and Science for primary construction and software development of three complete EvoStats and one day per week on-site at the Genome Sciences building (Biology dept.) at UNC-Chapel Hill integrating and maintaining the EvoStat for use by researchers 

 and additional components (multiple extra instances of the lagoon units, one additional Cellstat, and one additional auto-sampler). 

Each EvoStat will consist of a main computer, one cellstat, four lagoons, and one auto-sampler.  An additional cellstat and an auto-sampler along with a few additional lagoons may be constructed as backup units.  Initially, we have no plans to run active cultures in the EvoStats located at the Museum of Life and Science or the makerspace.  When the design stabilizes and the second and third EvoStat have demonstrated their reliability, they will be moved into space at UNC or another laboratory to be used for evolution experiments.

Peter Reintjes (PI) List of Publications


U.S. Patent #5,728,963 for "Low-Power Music Synthesizer and Transmitter", technology for short-range radio-based toys and radio-location devices.

 U.S. Patent #6,178,453 “Virtual circuit switching architecture” for IP-telephony and collaborative computing applications.

``Logic and Language: Stretching Homologies to the Breaking Point'', Banquet Speech, ICPAP/PACT, Paris, April 1995.

``Logic Programming for Manufacturing and Engineering'', Advanced Software Technology Seminars, London, December 1994.

``Confessions of a Logical Programmer'', Keynote Address, International Conference on the Practical Applications of Prolog, London, April 1994.

``MULTI/PLEX: Tools for Formal Languages'', Peter Reintjes and Suresh Rajgopal, Programming Environments Workshop, International Conference and Symposium on Logic Programming, Vancouver, November 1993.

``Elegant Technologies'', Invited Talk, International Conference on the Practical Applications of Prolog, ALP, London, April 1992.

``A Set of Tools for VHDL Design'', International Conference on Logic Programming, Paris, June 1991. MIT Press
Also in Logic Programming in Action: Proceedings of the Second International Logic Programming Summer School, Zurich, September 1992, Springer-Verlag.

``BIOSCAN: A VLSI-Based System for Biosequence Analysis'', White et. al..  1991 IEEE International Conference on Computer Design, October 1991, IEEE Computer Society Press

``PREDITOR: A Prolog-based VLSI Editor'', The Practice of Prolog, Leon Sterling, Editor, pp.21-72, November 1990, MIT Press

``A VHDL Parser in Prolog'', MCNC Technical Report 90-41, March 1990, Microelectronics Center of North Carolina

``AUNT: A Universal Netlist Translator'', 1987 Symposium on Logic Programming, September 1987, IEEE Computer Society Press, also in Journal of Logic Programming, 1990:8:5-19 North Holland.

``A Proposal for Symbolic Supercomputing'', MCNC Technical Report 89-13, March 1990, Microelectronics Center of North Carolina

``AI Methodology as a Key for Software Reusability'', Tools for Artificial Intelligence - TAI-89, October 1989, IEEE Computer Society Press

``AI Languages and Software Engineering'', AAAI Spring Symposium, March 1989, Stanford University.

``A VLSI Design Environment in Prolog'', Logic Programming: The Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference and Symposium, August 1988, MIT Press

``A History of Machine Translation in Word, Phrase, and Fable'', Videotape for IBM Corporation, Information Development Education, 1988.

``AI Applications in VLSI CAD'', Artificial Intelligence Applications Symposium, February 1987, North Carolina State University.

``Network Tools: Ideas for Intelligent Network Software'', Byte Magazine, October 1981.

``UNIX/C Seminars'', 1980, Eatoin Corporation.

``Phase-Locked Waveform Generator'', Electronics, February 1978, McGraw Hill.

``Self-gating Sample-and-Hold controls Oscillator Frequency'', Electronics, June 1977.



